In this lecture we are going to talk about loss function.
So we have a data set and we want to make sure that the predictions made by the natural network is approximately
the same as the labels in the data set.
So this is what we have been discussing in one of your previous lectures that we have the data set.
For example the X or logical table which two features X and Y And We know the labels.
So the X or values will be 0 1 1 and 0.
So we keep training our own network until we come to the conclusion that the predictions made by the
network is approximately the same as the labels in the data set.
So that's why we define the last function which measures how close the given our network is to the ideal
toward which it is training.
So we calculate a value based on the air or we are observing the now Rose nethermost predictions and
we want to find the optimal bias surveiled use as well as the weights that will minimize the loss function
we can use.
Gradient descent algorithm for optimization or any other matter how eristic related algorithms.
Basically it is an optimization problem.
So lots of lots of students have posed the question.
When dealing with artificial intelligence basics that why do we have to consider simulated annealing
genetic algorithms or swarm optimization because we can solve any kinds of optimization related problem.
For example when we are dealing with now little networks by the way the most commonly used algorithm
is gradient descent or so has the gradient descent but we can use any other optimization technique.
OK.
So when we are dealing with regression.
So we have only one output feature we can use mean square error or as the last function we can define
it as 1 wide by an.
And the sum of y Sabai minus Y prime Sabai basically Y is the actual value that we know from our training
data set.
So these are the labels in our dataset and the y prime are the predictions made by our artificial.
Now we're doing that.
Of course it is quite intuitive because the actual values are close to the predictions made by or artificial.
Now we're on a network.
It means that y minus Y prime is approximately zero which means that the mean square error is approximately
zero.
So our and our network can make good predictions.
Of course at the beginning there's going to be some error and this is what can be measured with the
top of means square and or last function.
Ok so this is the case when we are dealing with regression.
But usually we are dealing with classification and this is why we can use negativa log likelihood as
a last function.
Ok so for example when there are several output values when dealing with a hand with 10 digits classification
then basically we can use the maximum likelihood estimator.
And because the logarithm function is monotonically increasing minimizing the negative load likelihood
is the same as maximizing the probability.
So we would like to end up with the maximum probability.
OK I don't want to talk a lot about the math behind our networks but the maximum likelihood estimation
is present on Wikipedia data or so you can take a closer look.
One of the main features as far as maximum likelihood is concerned so we can find even paramita as such
as the edge weights for an hour or network that's going to maximize the probability of making good predictions.
So this is how we are going to find the actuates during the training procedure.
Of course if we apply the logarithm on the given entities it's not going to change the maximum values.
I'm not sure whether you are interested in quantitative finance but we can deal with the logarithm of
daily returns and or calculation will be correct.
So we can apply the logarithm function on the given values.
It's not going to change the maximum or the minimum location.
Okay the last question you may pose that while to deal with the negative of the log likelihood because
most of the built in functions such as Python optimize matter finds the minimum and not the maximum.
So finding the maximum value of a given function is the same as finding the minimum of the negative
value of the function.
So this is the negative log likelihood function.
This is mathematically equivalent to what is called The Cross and droppy negative the likelihood has
something to do with statistics and costs and therapy has something to do with information theory but
the conclusion is the same that we can end up with a last function like this that is going to measure
the air or in our now little network we are and is the number of classes it is close to ten when we
classify handwritten digits.
We have 0 1 2 3 4 up to 9.
So we have 10 items.
And and is the number of samples in the dataset.
OK so this is what we are going to use during implementation.
We are going to define the last function as the negative load likelihood.
That's why I want to talk a bit about negative Loek likelihood to know what's happening under the hood.
OK.
So as far as the optimization is concerned we are going to talk about gradient descent and so has the
gradient descent in the next lecture.
Thanks for watching.